#Artist's statement
Project 1 Cart263
Frederick Labbe

#While(Living) -> Badtripping
This game mirrors the myth of Sysiphus. Sysiphus is stuck in an infernal loop of failing to push a rock up a hill. The same idea is brought here, someone caught in a loop that is unpleasant, if not horrible at some point. This is a game about someone thinking that, this time, taking magic mushroom would be different than the last times. This time will be alright. This time there will be no bad trip. However, it does bring a bad trip, over and over again. And once it is over, the player thinks that the next time will be different. And it is not. When one is on psychedelics, it is common to see geometrical figures of random colors. Especially on higher doses when one closes one’s eyes. That is what is represented here by the circles, since shapes are not the cup of tea of html and CSS. They morph and merge into one another and create a geometric dance following the music of your thoughts and of the universe. I chose the mushroom because it an lead to that state on relatively high doses and because other psychedelics like LSD or DMT(legal in New-Zealand by the way) can be proven to be a lot more difficult to represent in minimal pixel art.

I first started by wanting to do a full on trip with fractals and psychedelic mandalas visuals. However, After some research, it proved to be quite difficult mathematically, since it involves a lot of recursion. After that, I wanted to have circles centered at the middle of the screen getting bigger to simulate a tunnel effect. However, the use of <div>s made them stack down one under another. After a lot of hours trying to make it work I finally gave up and made them appear in a grid layout from css. Something that would have been really easy to do on p5 proved to be a lot more difficult on jQuery, principally because there was no canvas and because of the html/css that I don't know a lot about. Had I just used p5, I think it would have been a piece of cake, but I understand that the objective of this project is to make us more familiar with new libraries like jQuery, so I kept only that one. Therefore, I learned a lot about jQuery and understand how it could be very useful for websites, but maybe less for games or for creating visuals. It made me realize that I really need to learn more about css and html because they are necessary for jQuery. One intro class was clearly not enough. I considered just making an animated gif to simulate the visuals, but I thought my program would not be complex enough programmatically, so I did not spend that much time on the visual aspect. The basic requirements of the project are met and the goal to represent the myth of Sysiphus is respected, because, in some way, Sysiphus is caught in a loop, a badtrip, where he does everything over and over again without ever succeeding. The only difference is that Sysiphus’ hell never ends, as in comparison, the effects of a drug always come to wear off after some time. Or does it? What proves we are not just living in an eternal loop of our own life? An eternal loop where you live your own life and die all over again and again? Like that one time you badtripped on a substance? Or is it just me?
