#Artist's statement
Project 2 Cart263
Frederick Labbe

#A Children's Game?
This game is based on an idea in the article "Something is wrong on the internet". This idea is the fact that Children can go on Youtube and expect to watch a cute, happy and pink little video, but be deceived, if not horrified by some violent or even gore content. These videos are clearly made to look like cute little characters and appeal to children at the beginning, only to shock them later with blood and the characters' guts coming out of their bodies. A good example of that is Happy Tree Friends, that can be watched here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sea9yrjxT9M. Happy Tree Friends is in fact the inspiration for “A Children’s Game?”, which mimics the idea of having a cute, happy game that looks as if it was made for children, only to become gore when the bunny falls on the spikes. As the player advances in the game, it becomes much harder and the number of spikes is being increased. The sky also becomes darker and darker as the player moves forward to make the user question the theme and ambiance of the game. As a foreshadowing element, the voice of the bunny made with the Responsive Voice library talks at the very start with a creepy, robotic and fake sounding voice. It is made to evoke a feeling of unease to the player as, yes, it looks cute and pink, but there is already a weird, if not disturbing element just with the voice. Once the bunny falls on the spikes, everything becomes red and blood splashes everywhere as a horror movie sound and a painfully screaming girl is heard, drastically shifting the mood of the game. A 4 year’s old should not be playing this game anymore. Towards the end, the player can try to go to the last platform, but can never do it, since it is too far. Every time the user tries to reach it, the bunny falls on the spikes. Dying horribly, over and over again. It is meant so the kids will realize that they can never reach their goals, affecting them not only because of the gore aspects, but also by shaking their young and naïve views that everyone achieve their goals in their life and get what they want.

Programmed with the library Phaser 3, I inspired myself a lot from Pippin’s Tutorial code, because I did not understand very well the library yet. The purpose of the game is similar, collecting objects, but I do not keep track of the number of carrots like the stars, because in reality, it does not really matter how many carrots are found, the real goal of the game is to shock the user, not to collect the carrots, because the player can’t ever win and there is no “Game Over”. There is a lot of similar basis, but I focused a lot on the blood to differentiate myself from Pippin’s example. The blood spitting everywhere is made with an emitter that creates and spreads the same image repeatedly before making it disappear, creating a particle effect. To learn how to do that, I followed a tutorial on Youtube made by Mitchell Hudson. Here is the tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LEDPCfot_GY&t=541s. One other component that differentiate me from our class’ tutorial about Phaser is the changing scene, which I had to learn myself and ask for the professor’s help a couple time to achieve it. By creating different classes with the different menu and following Pippin’s suggestion of having a Preloader class, I am positive that my code is different enough than the tutorial because of the real objective and the theme and because of the components discussed here.
